Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture discussion on what is data science and this lecture will briefly
be discussing three main topics we'll talk about the growing interest in data science is a field.
The growing demand for data scientists in the job market as well as an overview definition of what is
data science.
A simple Google Trends search for the term data scientist reveals a recent explosion in popularity for
people searching for the term data scientist.
This is because data science can affect so many fields and domains.
You may already be familiar of domains that work closely if data science such as machine translation
speech recognition robotics search engines etc..
However they do science can affect other fields such as biology health care humanities finance Medical
Informatics business economics and so much more because data science is applicable to so many fields
of study.
The explosion of popularity and the ability to use data science has grown just in the past few years
tremendously.
Searching for job trends on indeed dotcom also reveals Eytan exploding demand for data scientists in
the job market.
Over the past four years there's been a 1600 percent growth in job postings for the term data scientist
.
In fact data scientists has been called the sexiest job of the 21st century by the Harvard Business
Review McKinsey and Company project a global excess demand of 1.5 million new data scientists needed
.
This is going to lead to a huge skills gap that you can fill.
Allowing data scientists the man very generous compensations for their new skill sets.
The explosion of the popularity of data science can be attributed to many factors but there's four main
driving factors.
One is that there's more data being created than ever before.
The second being large computing power is easily available.
Things such as Amazon Web Services and Google's cloud computing platform have allowed us to have large
computing power at our fingertips.
The third being new programming tools tools such as the our programming language to help you quickly
analyze data and perform statistical analysis on it.
And finally this huge skills demand has led to generous compensation for data scientists meaning more
and more people are willing to jump into the new field will learn a lot and demand those higher salaries
.
Now let's talk about a definition of data science we can think of data science as an intersection of
fields the intersection of computer science math and statistics knowledge and then general domain knowledge
.
We can look at the intersection of just two of these fields.
For instance the intersection of computer science and math and statistics leads the field of machine
learning.
You should note that machine learning is not the same thing as data science instead of machine learning
is part of data science.
If we were to cross computer science and general domain knowledge of a specific field you would get
software development meaning use using computer science knowledge develop software very specific domain
and then if you combine math and statistics with domain knowledge you'll get classic research such as
research performed in social sciences in academia.
It's the intersection of all three of these topics where you get data science as an outcome in this
course.
You'll learn how to use computer science programming with the R programming language.
The math and statistical analysis available in our programming language and apply it to various domains
of study in order to fully understand the full data science lifecycle.
All right let's start learning all these new skills with the rest of the course.
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture